README.md, before:

Since I became a thinker circa. 2020, I have wished to construct some sort of visualised timeline of the greatest thinkers that have lived.

This site is built in Svelte. Svelte is simple and fast. I also want to learn Svelte.

[https://abaj8494.github.io/shrine/](https://abaj8494.github.io/shrine/)


# list of all people in the shrine:

| Name | Born | Died |
|------|------|------|
| Achilles | 1200 BC | 1130 BC |
| Homer | 800 BC | 701 BC |
| Thales | 624 BC | 546 BC |
| Siddhartha Gautama | 563 BC | 483 BC |
| Confucius | 551 BC | 479 BC |
| Sophocles | 497 BC | 406 BC |
| Zeno | 490 BC | 430 BC |
| Herodotus | 484 BC | 425 BC |
| Socrates | 470 BC | 399 BC |
| Alcibiades | 450 BC | 404 BC |
| Aristophanes | 446 BC | 386 BC |
| Plato | 428 BC | 348 BC |
| Diogenes | 412 BC | 323 BC |
| Aristotle | 384 BC | 322 BC |
| Alexander the Great | 356 BC | 323 BC |
| Euclid | 325 BC | 265 BC |
| Cleopatra | 69 BC | 30 BC |
| Jesus | 4 BC | 33 |
| Seneca | 4 BC | 65 |
| Marcus Aurelius | 121 | 180 |
| Genghis Khan | 1162 | 1227 |
| Dante Alighieri | 1265 | 1321 |
| Geoffrey Chaucer | 1343 | 1400 |
| Johannes Gutenberg | 1400 | 1468 |
| Da Vinci | 1452 | 1519 |
| Faust | 1480 | 1540 |
| Montaigne | 1533 | 1592 |
| Miguel de Cervantes | 1547 | 1616 |
| Francis Bacon | 1561 | 1626 |
| Galileo | 1564 | 1642 |
| Shakespeare | 1564 | 1616 |
| Guy Fawkes | 1570 | 1606 |
| Caravaggio | 1571 | 1610 |
| Descartes | 1596 | 1650 |
| Spinoza | 1632 | 1677 |
| Newton | 1643 | 1727 |
| Johann Sebastian Bach | 1685 | 1750 |
| Voltaire | 1694 | 1778 |
| Leonhard Euler | 1707 | 1783 |
| Adam Smith | 1723 | 1790 |
| Immanuel Kant | 1724 | 1804 |
| Lavoisier | 1743 | 1794 |
| Jacques Louis David | 1748 | 1825 |
| Goethe | 1749 | 1832 |
| Joseph Fourier | 1768 | 1830 |
| Beethoven | 1770 | 1827 |
| Jane Austen | 1775 | 1817 |
| Carl Friedrich Gauss | 1777 | 1855 |
| Augustin-Louis Cauchy | 1789 | 1857 |
| Eugène Delacroix | 1798 | 1863 |
| Alexander Pushkin | 1799 | 1837 |
| Charles Darwin | 1809 | 1882 |
| Abraham Lincoln | 1809 | 1865 |
| Charles Dickens | 1812 | 1870 |
| Richard Wagner | 1813 | 1883 |
| Ada Lovelace | 1815 | 1852 |
| Charlotte Bronte | 1816 | 1855 |
| Fyodor Dostoevsky | 1821 | 1881 |
| Leo Tolstoy | 1828 | 1910 |
| Charles Dodgson / Lewis Carroll | 1832 | 1898 |
| Mark Twain | 1835 | 1910 |
| Pyotr Tchaikovsky | 1840 | 1893 |
| Nietzsche | 1844 | 1900 |
| Georg Cantor | 1845 | 1918 |
| Hermann Ebbinghaus | 1850 | 1909 |
| Nikola Tesla | 1856 | 1943 |
| Sigmund Freud | 1856 | 1939 |
| David Hilbert | 1862 | 1943 |
| Marie Curie | 1867 | 1934 |
| Mahatma Gandhi | 1869 | 1948 |
| Robert Frost | 1874 | 1963 |
| Carl Jung | 1875 | 1961 |
| Einstein | 1879 | 1955 |
| Edward Hopper | 1882 | 1967 |
| Erwin Schrödinger | 1887 | 1961 |
| T.S. Eliot | 1888 | 1965 |
| August Dvorak | 1894 | 1975 |
| Alfred Tarski | 1901 | 1983 |
| Mortimer J. Adler | 1902 | 2001 |
| George Orwell | 1903 | 1950 |
| Salvador Dali | 1904 | 1989 |
| Frida Kahlo | 1907 | 1954 |
| Mother Teresa | 1910 | 1997 |
| Alan Turing | 1912 | 1954 |
| Rosa Parks | 1913 | 2005 |
| Frank Sinatra | 1915 | 1998 |
| Richard Feynman | 1918 | 1988 |
| Rosemary Dobson | 1920 | 2012 |
| Alexander Shulgin | 1925 | 2014 |
| Niklas Luhmann | 1927 | 1998 |
| Anne Frank | 1929 | 1945 |
| Sylvia Plath | 1932 | 1963 |
| Carl Sagan | 1934 | 1996 |
| John Conway | 1937 | 2020 |
| Stephen Hawking | 1942 | 2018 |
| Muhammad Ali | 1942 | 2016 |
| Steve Jobs | 1955 | 2011 |
| Michael Jackson | 1958 | 2009 |
| Princess Diana | 1961 | 1997 |

Commit message:

Release v1.0.3: Add people and fix UI issues
Added:
- Added Fibonacci (1170-1250) with portrait from Wikimedia Commons
- Added Andrey Kolmogorov (1903-1987) with portrait from Wikimedia Commons
- Implemented pinch-to-zoom functionality for mobile devices
- Added touch event handlers supporting 0.5x to 3x zoom range

Fixed:
- Fixed book titles overlapping with dynamic spacing algorithm
- Enhanced overlap detection based on actual title text width
- Fixed popup staying fixed in viewport during pan operations
- Improved mobile zoom experience with explicit viewport settings

Changed:
- Updated overlap detection to calculate required separation distance
- Enhanced touch event handling for better mobile user experience
- Added smooth transition effects for zoom operations

Closes #2, #3, #4, #5

README.md, after:

Since I became a thinker circa. 2020, I have wished to construct some sort of visualised timeline of the greatest thinkers that have lived.

This site is built in Svelte. Svelte is simple and fast. I also want to learn Svelte.

[https://abaj8494.github.io/shrine/](https://abaj8494.github.io/shrine/)

## Changelog

### Version 1.0.3 (2025-11-27)

**Added:**
- Added Fibonacci (1170-1250) to the timeline
- Added Andrey Kolmogorov (1903-1987) to the timeline
- Implemented pinch-to-zoom functionality for mobile devices (0.5x to 3x zoom range)

**Fixed:**
- Fixed book titles overlapping on timeline with dynamic spacing based on title length
- Fixed popup staying fixed in viewport during panning operations
- Improved mobile zoom experience with explicit viewport settings

**Changed:**
- Enhanced overlap detection algorithm to prevent text collisions
- Improved touch event handling for better mobile UX


# list of all people in the shrine:

| Name | Born | Died |
|------|------|------|
| Achilles | 1200 BC | 1130 BC |
| Homer | 800 BC | 701 BC |
| Thales | 624 BC | 546 BC |
| Siddhartha Gautama | 563 BC | 483 BC |
| Confucius | 551 BC | 479 BC |
| Sophocles | 497 BC | 406 BC |
| Zeno | 490 BC | 430 BC |
| Herodotus | 484 BC | 425 BC |
| Socrates | 470 BC | 399 BC |
| Alcibiades | 450 BC | 404 BC |
| Aristophanes | 446 BC | 386 BC |
| Plato | 428 BC | 348 BC |
| Diogenes | 412 BC | 323 BC |
| Aristotle | 384 BC | 322 BC |
| Alexander the Great | 356 BC | 323 BC |
| Euclid | 325 BC | 265 BC |
| Cleopatra | 69 BC | 30 BC |
| Jesus | 4 BC | 33 |
| Seneca | 4 BC | 65 |
| Marcus Aurelius | 121 | 180 |
| Genghis Khan | 1162 | 1227 |
| Fibonacci | 1170 | 1250 |
| Dante Alighieri | 1265 | 1321 |
| Geoffrey Chaucer | 1343 | 1400 |
| Johannes Gutenberg | 1400 | 1468 |
| Da Vinci | 1452 | 1519 |
| Faust | 1480 | 1540 |
| Montaigne | 1533 | 1592 |
| Miguel de Cervantes | 1547 | 1616 |
| Francis Bacon | 1561 | 1626 |
| Galileo | 1564 | 1642 |
| Shakespeare | 1564 | 1616 |
| Guy Fawkes | 1570 | 1606 |
| Caravaggio | 1571 | 1610 |
| Descartes | 1596 | 1650 |
| Spinoza | 1632 | 1677 |
| Newton | 1643 | 1727 |
| Johann Sebastian Bach | 1685 | 1750 |
| Voltaire | 1694 | 1778 |
| Leonhard Euler | 1707 | 1783 |
| Adam Smith | 1723 | 1790 |
| Immanuel Kant | 1724 | 1804 |
| Lavoisier | 1743 | 1794 |
| Jacques Louis David | 1748 | 1825 |
| Goethe | 1749 | 1832 |
| Joseph Fourier | 1768 | 1830 |
| Beethoven | 1770 | 1827 |
| Jane Austen | 1775 | 1817 |
| Carl Friedrich Gauss | 1777 | 1855 |
| Augustin-Louis Cauchy | 1789 | 1857 |
| Eugène Delacroix | 1798 | 1863 |
| Alexander Pushkin | 1799 | 1837 |
| Charles Darwin | 1809 | 1882 |
| Abraham Lincoln | 1809 | 1865 |
| Charles Dickens | 1812 | 1870 |
| Richard Wagner | 1813 | 1883 |
| Ada Lovelace | 1815 | 1852 |
| Charlotte Bronte | 1816 | 1855 |
| Fyodor Dostoevsky | 1821 | 1881 |
| Leo Tolstoy | 1828 | 1910 |
| Charles Dodgson / Lewis Carroll | 1832 | 1898 |
| Mark Twain | 1835 | 1910 |
| Pyotr Tchaikovsky | 1840 | 1893 |
| Nietzsche | 1844 | 1900 |
| Georg Cantor | 1845 | 1918 |
| Hermann Ebbinghaus | 1850 | 1909 |
| Nikola Tesla | 1856 | 1943 |
| Sigmund Freud | 1856 | 1939 |
| David Hilbert | 1862 | 1943 |
| Marie Curie | 1867 | 1934 |
| Mahatma Gandhi | 1869 | 1948 |
| Robert Frost | 1874 | 1963 |
| Carl Jung | 1875 | 1961 |
| Einstein | 1879 | 1955 |
| Edward Hopper | 1882 | 1967 |
| Erwin Schrödinger | 1887 | 1961 |
| T.S. Eliot | 1888 | 1965 |
| August Dvorak | 1894 | 1975 |
| Alfred Tarski | 1901 | 1983 |
| Mortimer J. Adler | 1902 | 2001 |
| George Orwell | 1903 | 1950 |
| Andrey Kolmogorov | 1903 | 1987 |
| Salvador Dali | 1904 | 1989 |
| Frida Kahlo | 1907 | 1954 |
| Mother Teresa | 1910 | 1997 |
| Alan Turing | 1912 | 1954 |
| Rosa Parks | 1913 | 2005 |
| Frank Sinatra | 1915 | 1998 |
| Richard Feynman | 1918 | 1988 |
| Rosemary Dobson | 1920 | 2012 |
| Alexander Shulgin | 1925 | 2014 |
| Niklas Luhmann | 1927 | 1998 |
| Anne Frank | 1929 | 1945 |
| Sylvia Plath | 1932 | 1963 |
| Carl Sagan | 1934 | 1996 |
| John Conway | 1937 | 2020 |
| Stephen Hawking | 1942 | 2018 |
| Muhammad Ali | 1942 | 2016 |
| Steve Jobs | 1955 | 2011 |
| Michael Jackson | 1958 | 2009 |
| Princess Diana | 1961 | 1997 |
